# Tritonhawk-Plus
GIMP C++ open source plug-ins

Tritonhawk Plus open source plug-ins are meant for the newer version 3.x GIMP program.  They use 128-bit depth floating-point math for image processing, using a customized version of libquadmath that has a few added functions and is compiled directly into the plug-in(s) without being a DLL or import library.  The original source code for libquadmath that I used and altered is at: https://github.com/gcc-mirror/gcc/tree/master/libquadmath.  Not all of the original libquadmath files are in this project as of yet, and I added a few functions to it that are licensed under the zlib license.

Tritonhawk Plus plug-ins are designed to work with the latest official release of GIMP, which at the time of this writing is version 3.0.4.  Once the plug-ins are built, they should show up under applicable menus in GIMP, after being added to GIMP's plug-in paths.  They are designed to hopefully work with the existing DLL files and libraries that are installed with GIMP and not need any additional utilities, libraries, or other stuff for working.  They use SSE 4.1 if they are built using the source code and included Codeblocks IDE project files.  Please note that these files are a work in progress, and not ready for release yet.

If you have Windows 11, and are familiar with the free, open source IDE called Codeblocks, and have or can have MSYS2 installed with the Clang++ compiler and know how to download and set up MSYS2 packages, you can hopefully use the source code and included files for Tritonhawk Plus software to build the plug-ins.  Codeblocks and MSYS2 can easily be found on the Internet with your favorite, typical search engine, and downloaded and set up by a typical amateur C++ programmer (like myself) without too much hassle, but to insult your intelligence you can get Codeblocks from it's web site at: https://www.codeblocks.org/ and MSYS2 for Windows from: https://www.msys2.org/.  Note that when setting up the compiler toolchain and stuff for MSYS, for building Tritonhawk Plus plug-ins you want the Clang++ compiler, and not the default UCRT64 compiler that their website mentions on their home page.

If you want to build the plug-ins from source and don't want to use Codeblocks, you may find the files like https://github.com/TigersEyeJadeSwiftwing/Tritonhawk-Plus/blob/main/tritonhawk-plus/config_h/clang64/config-tritonhawk-plus-image-resize.hpp useful.  It details all of the command-line flags for the compiler and linker, included libraries and files, etc.

Sorry I don't have detailed instructions for setting up everything right now, I'm currently working on eventually getting all of that stuff together at some point, and until then you can dare to try to figure it out yourself, either by opening the project workspace in an installed copy of Codeblocks and looking at the project options to see what libraries the project's source code needs, and then downloading the right MSYS2 packages for Clang, or you can download pre-built .exe releases when I have those ready.  I can tell you off the top of my head that you'll need to at least install MSYS2's GIMP and related libraries as well as OpenMP, and most likely a few other things, and if you want the Codeblocks project file(s) to work out of the box without having to make too many changes then you'll want to make sure MSYS2 installs Clang and other libraries in the default location of "C:\msys64\clang64" and so on.  I hope to have more information on this available later, as well as more doxygen-compatible documentation blocks in the source code.
